All right guys in this video we're going to talk about backgrounds and borders.
And I'm going to use the full the full screen editor and full screen browser because I want to utilize
all the space here.
Now notice that I have a folder called I Am G.
This is an image folder and I have two images one is a star's dot JPEG file which is this image here.
I'm going to use as a background and then I have a leaf dot P and G which you can't really see because
it's transparent and it's on it's on a dark background.
Now one thing to remember is j peg files or jpeg images.
They can't be transparent like this one is PMG files can have a transparent background where you can
put it on any web page like let's say the Web pages are red background and it will show red behind this
image if it were a j peg it would have to have a solid color it couldn't be transparent so just remember
that if you want transparency then use PMG image.
All right.
So what we're gonna do now is create a file called 0 5 underscore backgrounds underscore borders dot
each team L and let's put in our boilerplate here and for a title we'll save backgrounds and borders
set in our style tags.
And as far as each time all goes we're gonna have four Divs.
So the first one is going to have an I.D. of box dash one.
OK.
She wanted div with the idea of box 1.
We're going to put an H 3 and just say Box 1 for the title and we want a paragraph with let's say 20
words.
So we'll do lawn 20.
OK.
And then what I'm going to do is just highlight this whole div and I'm going to copy it down with shift
shift option or shift Ault on windows and then we're going to hit the down key three times.
Now we have four divs and then we're just going to change the I.D..
So one two and three and four and then I will change the text as well and we'll probably use this H
to email in a couple different lectures that's three and four.
OK.
So let's save this and let's open it up with live server and it should look like this.
Case we have our four divs and we're gonna style the first one.
So let's go back and let's target the I.D. of Box 1 and we're gonna use the background spell background
right.
We want to use the background color property.
Now when you want to assign a color to text obviously we use the color property we've already talked
about that if you want to style the background color the background you use background color.
And I'm just gonna choose this Blanch almond doesn't really matter what what color we use.
But if I go ahead and save this and we take a look.
Notice that this whole div now has that background color.
OK.
And it's going to take up however however much space that the element takes up or the div remember divs
or block level so this is going to go all the way across by default unless we set a width on it or something
like that.
And I know the text is right up against the edge.
That's because there's no padding.
I'm going to go for margin and padding and lecture very soon.
So let's head back into our editor here and I want to go over border OK now border has three mandatory
properties.
So the first one is gonna be width and this can be in any order but we're going to do with first.
So let's say three pixels.
Now if I just just do that and take a look.
We have nothing there's no change because we need all three properties the next one is gonna be the
color.
So we want to say border dash color and let's just do red.
And then the last one is gonna be border style which can be dashed dotted double groove.
The most popular is gonna be solid.
That's probably the most common that you'll use which is just a solid regular border.
So let's save that and let's take a look.
And now we have a three pixel wide red solid border.
OK.
And just to give you an idea of some of the other styles we can do like dotted for Take a look at that.
That's the dotted border.
And what else we have dashed
that stash is similar to dotted but it's there are wider lines.
But for the most part you're probably going to be using solid the most now using all three properties
like this.
We don't have to do it this way and this isn't the preferred way.
What we can do is just use the single border property and we can actually add all three of those in
here.
So three pixels solid red and it doesn't matter the order either you can use any order.
And if I comment this so I'll highlight this and do control forward slash or control question mark that
will comment that out if I save with Troll ass and take a look.
We have the same thing.
OK so this is the exact same as doing this.
It's just less lines of code.
OK.
So that's border let's say we want to do just border on the top.
Actually no it will.
We'll grab the next one.
Let's do box 2 and let's actually give this a background.
Now we can also use just background if we want to add a color or background image which I'll get into
in a second.
But let's give this a dark background and let's give it a color text color of white.
And let's say we just want a border on the top.
We can just do border dash top and let's say we want to do blue solid three pixels.
OK.
So we save that and we take a look.
Now we just have a border on the top so you can do border talk.
Border bottom border left and border right.
All right.
So now I want to take a look at the border radius property because by default our corners are just straight
corners.
But we can rounded off if we want.
So I'm actually going to comment out the border top or not I'll leave it.
I'll leave it.
But what I do want to do
what I do want to do is just add a line break between these two box one and box two.
There we go.
So let's say that this top one here I want rounded corners.
So for that I would use a border radius.
So I'm gonna go to box 1.
Going to say border radius and we can put percentages here we can put pixels.
Let's say 10 pixels.
That's pretty common.
And if we take a look now we have rounded corners.
Now before CSX three there was no border radius property we actually had to create little images of
corners rounded corners and then position them perfectly so that it looked rounded like that which was
a huge pain in the butt.
And if you're just learning each team on CSX now you Hey you missed a lot of crappy stuff that we used
to have to do before.
Each team of five and CSX three just to just to let you know that now if we wanted to just add rounded
corners to like let's say the top.
We can do that as well so let's take box to let's say border dash top dash left dash radius.
I know that's a long property and let's say 10 pixels.
So if we take a look at that notice that only the top left is rounded.
OK.
So we can choose which corners we want around and let's say we just want the whole top.
So we'll just copy this down and we'll do right as well.
All right.
Now if we look at that both of the top is rounded.
Now you don't even have to have a border property to use border radius like we could still round the
bottom edges even though there's no border.
OK.
So that doesn't matter.
So next thing I want to look at is the background image property.
A lot of times you might want to have some kind of image is your background.
So let's use box 3 and let's use the background dash image property.
So this is going to actually take in you are ill and in here we could use a remote image like we could
do each GDP and then locate some image on the Internet and use that.
But what we want to do is target the stars dot JPEG file that's in our image folder.
Ok.
And since our image folder is local in our directory here we can just do dot slash that represents the
current directory.
Then we want to go into the image directory and then we want to call the stars dot JPEG file.
OK.
So let's save that and let's go back and notice that it uses the background image.
Now you're not going to see you don't see the whole image because it only takes up the space of the
actual element.
OK.
And this is the whole div right here.
Now we can make this bigger by setting a height.
We can set a height in width and CSX.
Let's also change the color of the text because it's unreadable right now.
So we'll see color white and let's give it a height of let's say 300 pixels and let's give it a width
of 600 pixels and let's save that and take a look.
And there we go so now we have our background image.
We have a width of 300 and the height of I'm sorry width of six hundred and the height of three hundred.
So with background image or I should say with background you have a bunch of other properties just like
with border one of those as background repeat.
Now you can't see it here but let's say this image was only like this big.
OK.
It ended right here.
It would repeat both this way on the x axis and this way on the y axis.
And usually you're not going to want that unless it's some kind of seamless texture that you want to
repeat like as it has some kind of seamless background.
But for the most part you're not going to want that.
So let's go ahead and set the background dash repeat property and there's a few options here you can
do repeat which is the default.
It repeats both ways.
Repeat x will only repeat on the x axis which is horizontal.
Repeat Y will go on the up and down the y axis.
But what we want is no repeat because we don't want to repeat.
Okay.
Another property is the position property.
So let's say background position and this will move the image around.
It takes in to values.
The first is going to be the x axis and the second is the y axis.
So let's do one hundred pixels let's just do one hundred pixel zero and see what happens here.
So what happened is on the x axis it pushed it over 100 pixels and it actually leaves a blank space
here.
Now if I do 100 pixels in the y axis try to try to guess what's going to happen so let's save that and
take a look and it pushes it down.
One hundred pixels.
Now let's say you wanted to move it up and over 100 pixels so that the image didn't actually get pushed
out of the out of its context here or its wrapper.
So let's go back and what we can do is we can do negative values now if we take a look.
What happened is the image went up 100 pixels and over this way 100 pixels.
Now you also have keywords you can use like top center and bottom so let's say we wanted to center and
center on both axis.
OK.
And you can see what it did is it just centered it.
If I wanted to take the y axis and move it up to the top we could do that as well.
And this might not be the best image to use as an example because it's just stars it's not something
that you can actually tell what position it's in but just know that we can move it you know top bottom
center and so on.
Now in most cases you're going to want the whole image to cover the background and that's not what's
going on here.
It's just it's the size of the image which I believe is 1920 by 10 80 so that the image is really like
this big.
It's like the whole window.
Now let's say we we just want the whole image to show in this spot what we could do is we can add a
background size property and we can set that to cover this case it's going to cover the whole space.
If we take a look now the whole image is showing.
It doesn't matter how what size the images it's going to adjust it's going to take up the whole space
right here.
All right.
So that's a lot of different properties right for the background.
There's even more than that.
But let's say that we want to do exactly what we're doing here but we don't want to take up all this
this these lines with all these different properties.
We can actually just use background.
OK.
So when I use background I'm going to do the same exact thing we just did.
So we're gonna take the U.R.L. and then after that we want the no repeat.
And then after that we'll do the position let's do center to center center.
And then when you want to put the size and you just do a slash and then cover like that.
So if I go ahead and comment this out and save and take a look we get the same result with much less
lines of code much less properties.
OK so let's move on.
I want to look at a bar having a fixed background and I'll show you what I mean.
So let's add in our box for and this time I'm going to set background.
Now when you want to set an image you don't have to use background image you can use just background.
Even if you don't want to add of all this other stuff we did up here.
So let's do U.R.L. and let's go in the current folder and then into the image folder and we want leaf
dot P and G.
OK.
And I'm just gonna do a no repeat.
All right now let's save this and see what we get.
So notice that it's just because the image is bigger like the image is this big.
It's not going to show the whole image it's only going to cover whatever the content area covers which
is this.
This right here.
So let's see what I'm going to do is set actually no.
We'll do is will add more content.
So in box for let's take this paragraph and let's just copy it down like a bunch of times a lot and
save that.
And now take a look.
And now notice that it shows the whole image because the content area is bigger.
If we manually set a height like we did here we'd be able to see the whole image as well.
But I want to show you how we can make a make this a fixed image and to give you an example let me just
make this smaller so we have a more of a scroll.
Now if I scroll see all the image just kind of stays in place.
We can make it fixed.
So let's go back up to box for and let's actually position it differently too so let's let's do
center bottom.
See what that looks like so now it's out Senator bottom do center center.
Now it's it's dead center.
Now I wanted to stay fixed.
So I'm going to add a a background attached.
I'm sorry.
Background attachment property.
And let's say fixed and let's save that.
And now watch when I scroll the image just stays in place and it's fixed to the to the browser window.
OK.
So if you want to do that then you want to use the background attachment fixed.
All right.
So that's going to be it for this video guys in the next one we're going to start to talk about the
box model which has to do with margin and padding and just how spacing works in NC SS.